Added migration guide (#37577)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/MigrationGuide-WindowsAzure-ServiceBus.md

> # Guide for migrating to Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus from WindowsAzure.ServiceBus

Reviewer: This one is still active.   We'll want to align the file name.

> # Guide for migrating to Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus from WindowsAzure.ServiceBus

Author: Should be okay now.

#### Consistency

We now have methods with similar names, signature and location to create senders and receivers. This provides consistency and predictability on the various features of the library. We have attempted to have the session/non-session usage be as seamless as possible. This allows you to make less changes to your code when you want to move from sessions to non-sessions or the other way around.

#### Connection Pooling

By using a single top-level client, we can implicitly share a single AMQP connection for all operations that an application performs.By making this connection sharing be implicit to a `ServiceBusClient` instance, we can help ensure that applications will not use multiple connections unless they explicitly opt in by creating multiple `ServiceBusClient` instances. The mental model of 1 client - 1 connection is more intuitive than 1 client/sender/receiver - 1 connection.

### Default transport type

> The default transport type in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` is AMQP. The new library does no longer support SBMP, and as such you will need to migrate to AMQP. The behavioral differences have been described at [Use legacy WindowsAzure.ServiceBus .NET framework library with AMQP 1.0](service-bus-amqp-dotnet.md#behavioral-differences). It is possible to use AMQP over WebSockets over port 443 by appending `;TransportType=AmqpWebSockets` to the end of the connection string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default transport type in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` is AMQP. The new library no longer supports SBMP, and as such you will need to migrate to AMQP. The behavioral differences have been described in [Use legacy WindowsAzure.ServiceBus .NET framework library with AMQP 1.0](service-bus-amqp-dotnet.md#behavioral-differences). It is possible to use AMQP with WebSockets over port 443 by setting the [TransportType](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.servicebus.servicebusclientoptions.transporttype?view=azure-dotnet#azure-messaging-servicebus-servicebusclientoptions-transporttype) on the options used when creating your `ServiceBusClient`.
```

We intentionally do not support custom extensions to the connection string.   We support only what the portal returns.  Customizations need to be specified in the options.

### BrokeredMessage changed to Message

> The object which used to represent a message has been changed from BrokeredMessage to ServiceBusMessage. Convenience methods like CompleteAsync, AbandonAsync, and DeadLetterAsync which were called on BrokeredMessage directly are not available on ServiceBusMessage object, but can instead be achieved with the help of ServiceBusReceiver and ServiceBusProcessor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The object which used to represent a message has been changed from `BrokeredMessage` to `ServiceBusMessage`. Convenience methods like `CompleteAsync`, `AbandonAsync`, and `DeadLetterAsync` which were called on `BrokeredMessage` directly are now found on the `ServiceBusReceiver` or `ServiceBusProcessor` from which the message was read.

```

await using var client = new ServiceBusClient(connectionString);
```

#### Administration client

The `ServiceBusAdministrationClient` replaces the `NamespaceManager` from `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`. For example usage please see the sample for [CRUD operations using the `ServiceBusAdministrationClient`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/Sample07_CrudOperations.md).

Authenticate with Active Directory:

```C# Snippet:ServiceBusAdministrationClientAAD
// Create a ServiceBusAdministrationClient that will authenticate using default credentials
string fullyQualifiedNamespace = "yournamespace.servicebus.windows.net";
ServiceBusAdministrationClient client = new ServiceBusAdministrationClient(fullyQualifiedNamespace, new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

Authenticate with connection string:

```C# Snippet:ServiceBusAdministrationClientConnectionString
// Create a ServiceBusAdministrationClient that will authenticate using a connection string
string connectionString = "<connection_string>";
ServiceBusAdministrationClient client = new ServiceBusAdministrationClient(connectionString);
```

### Sending messages

> Previously, in `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, you could send messages either by using a `QueueClient` (or `TopicClient` if you are targeting a topic) or the `MessageSender`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, you could send messages by using a `QueueClient`, `TopicClient`, or `MessageSender`.

```

> While the `QueueClient` allowed you to send and receive messages over a queue, the `MessageSender` allowed you to send messages to both queues and topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Not sure that we need this context.  I'd presume developers were already using the T0 type and know why they chose it.

```C#
// create a message to send

> BrokeredMessage message = new BrokeredMessage ("Hello world!");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BrokeredMessage message = new BrokeredMessage("Hello world!");

```

// send using the QueueClient
QueueClient queueClient = QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionString, queueName);
await queueClient.SendAsync(message);

// send using the MessageSender
var messagingFactory = MessagingFactory.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionString);
var sender = await messagingFactory.CreateMessageSenderAsync(queueName);
await sender.SendAsync(message);
```

> Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we combine all the send related features under a common class `ServiceBusSender` that you can create from the top level client using the `CreateSender()` method. This method takes the queue or topic you want to target. This way, we give you a one stop shop for all your send related needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, all of the send-related features are combined in a common class, `ServiceBusSender`, that is created  by calling `CreateSender` on your `ServiceBusClient`. This method takes the queue or topic you want to send to and creates a sender for that specific entity.

```

The feature to send a list of messages in a single call was implemented by batching all the messages into a single AMQP message and sending that to the service.

While we continue to support this feature, it had the potential to fail unexpectedly when the resulting batched AMQP message exceeded the size limit of the sender. To help with this, we now provide a safe way to batch multiple messages to be sent at once using the new `ServiceBusMessageBatch` class.

> While the below code sample uses a local queue as the source of messages to be safely batched and sent, your application may use a list or an array of messages that have accumulated from a different part of your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we continue to support this feature, it had the potential to fail unexpectedly when the resulting batched AMQP message exceeded the size limit of the sender. To help with this, we now provide a safe way to batch multiple messages to be sent at once using the new `ServiceBusMessageBatch` class.  The batch allows you to measure your message with the `TryAdd` method, returning `false` when a message is too large to fit in the batch.

// total number of messages to be sent to the Service Bus queue
int messageCount = messages.Count;

// while all messages are not sent to the Service Bus queue
while (messages.Count > 0)
{
    // start a new batch
    using ServiceBusMessageBatch messageBatch = await sender.CreateMessageBatchAsync();

    // add the first message to the batch
    if (messageBatch.TryAddMessage(messages.Peek()))
    {
        // dequeue the message from the .NET queue once the message is added to the batch
        messages.Dequeue();
    }
    else
    {
        // if the first message can't fit, then it is too large for the batch
        throw new Exception($"Message {messageCount - messages.Count} is too large and cannot be sent.");
    }

    // add as many messages as possible to the current batch
    while (messages.Count > 0 && messageBatch.TryAddMessage(messages.Peek()))
    {
        // dequeue the message from the .NET queue as it has been added to the batch
        messages.Dequeue();
    }

    // now, send the batch
    await sender.SendMessagesAsync(messageBatch);

    // if there are any remaining messages in the .NET queue, the while loop repeats
}
```

### Receiving messages

> Previously, in `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, you could receive messages either by using a `QueueClient` (or `SubscriptionClient` if you are targeting a subscription) or the `MessageReceiver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, you could receive messages by using a `QueueClient`, `SubscriptionClient`, or `MessageReceiver`.
```

> While the `QueueClient` allowed you to send and receive messages over a queue, the `MessageSender` allowed you to receive messages from both queues and subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```C#
// receive using the QueueClient
QueueClient queueClient = new QueueClient(connectionString, queueName);
BrokeredMessage receivedMessage = await queueClient.ReceiveAsync();
Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body:{receivedMessage.GetBody<String>()}");
await receivedMessage.CompleteAsync();

// Or receive using the receiver
var messagingFactory = MessagingFactory.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionString);
var receiver = await receiverFactory.CreateMessageReceiverAsync(queueName, ReceiveMode.PeekLock);
BrokeredMessage receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveAsync();
Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body:{receivedMessage.GetBody<String>()}");
await receivedMessage.CompleteAsync();
```

> Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we introduce a dedicated class `ServiceBusProcessor` which takes your message and error handlers to provide you with the same simple way to get started with processing your messages as message handlers in the previous packages, with auto-complete and auto-lock renewal features. This class also provides a graceful shutdown via the `StopProcessingAsync` method which will ensure that no more messages will be received, but at the same time you can continue the processing and settling the messages already in flight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we introduced `ServiceBusProcessor` which uses a push-based approach to deliver messages to event handlers that you provide while managing locks, message completion, concurrenc, and resiliency.  The processor also provides a graceful shutdown via the `StopProcessingAsync` method which will ensure that no more messages will be received, but at the same time you can continue the processing and settling the messages already in flight.
```

> The concept of a receiver remains for users who need to have a more fine grained control over the receiving and settling messages. The difference is that this is now created from the top-level `ServiceBusClient` via the `CreateReceiver()` method that would take the queue or subscription you want to target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The concept of a receiver remains for users who need to have a more fine-grained control over the reading and settling messages. The difference is that this is now created from the top-level `ServiceBusClient` via the `CreateReceiver` method taking the queue or subscription you want to read from and creating a receiver specific to that entity.
```

> Another notable difference from the previous library when it comes to receiving messages, is that the new library uses a separate type for received messages, `ServiceBusReceivedMessage`. This helps reduce the surface area of the sendable messages by excluding properties that are set by the service itself and cannot be set by a user when sending messages. In order to construct a `ServiceBusReceivedMessage` for mocking purposes, use the `ServiceBusModelFactory.ServiceBusReceivedMessage` method. In general, output types that are meant to be constructed only by the library can be created for mocking using the `ServiceBusModelFactory` static class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another notable difference from the `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus` when it comes to receiving messages, is that `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` uses a separate type for received messages, `ServiceBusReceivedMessage`. This helps reduce the surface area of the sendable messages by excluding properties that are owned by the service  and cannot be set when sending messages. 

 To support testing, the `ServiceBusModelFactory.ServiceBusReceivedMessage` method can be used to mock a message received from Service Bus. In general, all types that are meant to be created only by the library can be created for mocking using the `ServiceBusModelFactory` static class.
```

```C# Snippet:ServiceBusDeadLetterMessage
ServiceBusReceivedMessage receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveMessageAsync();

// Dead-letter the message, thereby preventing the message from being received again without receiving from the dead letter queue.
// We can optionally pass a dead letter reason and dead letter description to further describe the reason for dead-lettering the message.
await receiver.DeadLetterMessageAsync(receivedMessage, "sample reason", "sample description");

// receive the dead lettered message with receiver scoped to the dead letter queue.
ServiceBusReceiver dlqReceiver = client.CreateReceiver(queueName, new ServiceBusReceiverOptions
{
    SubQueue = SubQueue.DeadLetter
});
ServiceBusReceivedMessage dlqMessage = await dlqReceiver.ReceiveMessageAsync();

// The reason and the description that we specified when dead-lettering the message will be available in the received dead letter message.
string reason = dlqMessage.DeadLetterReason;
string description = dlqMessage.DeadLetterErrorDescription;
```

### Working with sessions

> Previously, in `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, you to receive messages from a session enabled queue/subscription you would register a message using the `QueueClient.RegisterSessionHandler()` method to receive messages from an available set of sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, you to receive messages from a session-enabled queue/subscription you would register a message using the `QueueClient.RegisterSessionHandler` method to receive messages from an available set of sessions.

```

> Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we simplify this by giving session variants of the same methods and classes that are available when working with queues/subscriptions that do not have sessions enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we simplify this by giving session-aware variants of the same methods and classes that are available when working with queues/subscriptions that do not have sessions enabled.
```

Console.ReadKey();
```

The below code snippet shows you the session variation of the receiver. Please note that creating a session receiver is an async operation because the library will need to get a lock on the session by connecting to the service first.

Create a receiver that will receive from the next available session:

```C# Snippet:ServiceBusReceiveNextSession
ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.AcceptNextSessionAsync(queueName);

// the received message is a different type as it contains some service set properties
ServiceBusReceivedMessage receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveMessageAsync();
Console.WriteLine(receivedMessage.SessionId);
```

Create a receiver that will receive from a specific session:

```C# Snippet:ServiceBusReceiveFromSpecificSession
// create a receiver specifying a particular session
ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.AcceptSessionAsync(queueName, "Session2");

// the received message is a different type as it contains some service set properties
ServiceBusReceivedMessage receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveMessageAsync();
Console.WriteLine(receivedMessage.SessionId);
```

> ### Cross-Entity transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cross-entity transactions

```

> Previously, in `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, when performing a transaction that spanned multiple queues, topics, or subscriptions you would need to use the "ViaPartitionKey" option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, when performing a transaction that spanned multiple queues, topics, or subscriptions you would need to use the `ViaPartitionKey` option

```

in the `MessageSender`.

> Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, there is an `EnableCrossEntityTransactions` property on the `ServiceBusClientOptions`. When setting this property to `true`, the first operation that occurs using any senders or receivers created from the client implicitly becomes the send-via entity. Because of this, subsequent operations must either be by senders, or if they are by receivers, the receiver must be receiving from the send-via entity. For this reason, it probably makes more sense to have your first operation be a receive rather than a send when setting this property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, the `EnableCrossEntityTransactions` property on `ServiceBusClientOptions` serves this purpose. When setting this property to `true`, the first operation that occurs using any senders or receivers created from the client implicitly becomes the send-via entity. Because of this, subsequent operations must either be by senders, or if they are by receivers, the receiver must be receiving from the send-via entity. For this reason, it probably makes more sense to have your first operation be a receive rather than a send when setting this property.
```

Is there a doc that we can cross-link for the "send via" concept?   This confuses the heck out of people (myself included.)

string connectionString = "<connection_string>";
var options = new ServiceBusClientOptions { EnableCrossEntityTransactions = true };
await using var client = new ServiceBusClient(connectionString, options);

ServiceBusReceiver receiverA = client.CreateReceiver("queueA");
ServiceBusSender senderB = client.CreateSender("queueB");
ServiceBusSender senderC = client.CreateSender("topicC");

ServiceBusReceivedMessage receivedMessage = await receiverA.ReceiveMessageAsync();

using (var ts = new TransactionScope(TransactionScopeAsyncFlowOption.Enabled))
{
    await receiverA.CompleteMessageAsync(receivedMessage);
    await senderB.SendMessageAsync(new ServiceBusMessage());
    await senderC.SendMessageAsync(new ServiceBusMessage());
    ts.Complete();
}
```

### Distributed tracing

In `WindowsAzure.ServiceBus`, the library would automatically flow [activity baggage](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.activity.baggage) via the `Correlation-Context` entry of the `BrokeredMessage.Properties` dictionary. This would allow senders and receivers to correlate any information that was added to an Activity's baggage by an application.

> In `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, Activity baggage is not currently flowed through the message. Instead, when using the [experimental OpenTelemetry support](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/introducing-experimental-opentelemetry-support-in-the-azure-sdk-for-net/), `tracestate` can be used to correlate the [Activity.TraceStateString](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.activity.tracestatestring) between senders, receivers, and processors. The `tracestate` entry is populated in the `ServiceBusMessage.ApplicationProperties` if the enclosing Activity has a non-null `TraceStateString`. In the future, we plan to add additional support for propagating context between senders, receivers, and processors. More details about tracing support in the `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` library can be found in the [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/TROUBLESHOOTING.md#distributed-tracing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, activity baggage is not currently flowed through the message. Instead, when using the [experimental OpenTelemetry support](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/introducing-experimental-opentelemetry-support-in-the-azure-sdk-for-net/), `tracestate` can be used to correlate the [Activity.TraceStateString](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.activity.tracestatestring) between senders, receivers, and processors. The `tracestate` entry is populated in the `ServiceBusMessage.ApplicationProperties` if the enclosing Activity has a non-null `TraceStateString`. In the future, we plan to add additional support for propagating context between senders, receivers, and processors. More details about tracing support in the `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` library can be found in the [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/TROUBLESHOOTING.md#distributed-tracing).

```

## Plugins

> With `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, you can extend the various types, allowing users of the Service Bus library to use common OSS extensions to enhance their applications without having to implement their own logic, and without having to wait for the SDK to explicitly support the needed feature, as demonstrated in the [extensibility sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/Sample09_Extensibility.md). We also have a [dedicated sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/Sample10_ClaimCheck.md) that demonstrates using the claim check pattern in the new library. To discuss plugins further, feel free to comment [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues/12943).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, you can extend the various types, allowing users of the Service Bus library to use common OSS extensions to enhance their applications without having to implement their own logic, and without having to wait for the SDK to explicitly support the needed feature, as demonstrated in the [extensibility sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/Sample09_Extensibility.md). We also have a [dedicated sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/Sample10_ClaimCheck.md) that demonstrates using the claim check pattern in the new library. 
```

That issue is now closed; better to allow folks to open a new issue for discussion.
